Amazon S3

S3 is the service and bucket is a component of it. 
Buckets are containers for data storage in S3

There are set of rules in creating the Bucket
bucket name should be in lower cases.
bucket name can start with name/number.
It may contain Periods ( ., - )

In AWS serverless architecture we don't have any physical paths (to store any files/templates).
At the time of creating bucket we need to enable the versioning option.

Versioning is means of keeping multiple variants of an object in the same Bucket.
Based on version id we can pull the objects (files) from bucket.

You can use versioning to preserve, retrieve and restore every version of every object in Amazon S3 Bucket.
If amazon receives multiple write requests for the same object simultaneously, it stores all of the objects. 

After uploading a file at S3 Bucket, to see the content inside the file we need to click Object Actions Open as it re-direct to the pre-signed URL having the file.
Pre-Signed URL is valid only limited time which we set.

After enabling the versioning, you might need to update your lifecycle rules to manage previous versions of objects.

For others to access your objects, you will need to explicitly grant them permissions

This lifecycle categorize our old data into packs like standard, glaciar etc.
There are price variations for the levels of services they offer.

To delete any file from the S3 Bucket it requires a command 'delete' at the time of deleting.

Different types of storage classes Standard, Standard IA, One Zone IA, Glacier, Glacier Deep Archive

Life cycle management based on the Types of the S3 Bucketing stucture.
Life cycle for Complete Bucket or Single file ( called as prefix ).

Life cycle for all objects inside bucket.

Transitioning of Files (Objects)
To move from one category to another it requires minimum 30 days. (Standar to Standard IA).



If go for Programming you need to add the AWSSDK.S3 for development
add the Maven dependancy at POM.xml

if you use the Management console (trhough the AWS UI) you can Create/Delete any file

While working withe the AWS S3 you required below at programming level.

Connection Strings (How we connected with DB in similar way we required below)
Access Key   
Secret Key
Bucket Name
region name
IAmazonS3 s3Client (Interface)

To create the client object

s3Client = new AmazonS3Client(accessKey, secretKey, bucketRegion);






